---
layout: post
title:  "Hired!"
date:   2023-05-25 21:43:12 -0500
categories: tech
---

After about a month of applying and interviewing, I’m excited to announce that I’ve officially restarted my career in IT!

Earlier this month, I joined an MSP as part of a significant project—a PC Refresh for Cook County Health. We’re replacing client PCs across the entire County Health system, which includes two major hospitals, around 15 community clinics, two correctional health facilities, and several administrative and satellite locations.

During my first few weeks, we focused on deployments at the largest county-run hospital, but budgetary constraints temporarily paused the refresh project. This gave us an opportunity to learn and support the tier 2 desktop team by working help desk tickets with them. 

Initially, we received tickets from current Desktop Analysts to troubleshoot and resolve. After gaining some experience and trust, I was granted direct access to our Freshdesk queue. This let me pick tickets to work on and assign tasks to the team as needed.

One particularly amusing request involved helping a clinic with reinstalling an old application called Vmax. This ancient software integrates with specialty hardware to take pulmonary function readings and generate reports for clinicians. After tests are taken, patient data is exported by "printing" these reports to PDF, which are then automatically imported into the Electronic Medical Record (EMR) systems.

The clinic had a chronic issue: every 3-4 months, the print-to-PDF function of the application would corrupt, leading to cryptic errors. The EoL support from the vendor had the only fix as reinstalling the application, requiring administrative credentials from the Desktop team. Given the number of stations and the frequency of the corruption, the clinic ended up reinstalling the application 2-3 times a month!

While reinstalling the app was a known fix, I wasn’t satisfied with a temporary solution. Knowing Windows has included a print-to-PDF driver by default for years, I decided to dig deeper to see if there was another option. During installation of the program, the application would configure its own virtual printer and custom driver for the print-to-PDF function (probably because the application predated it being included by default in Windows). I discovered that changing the properties of the virtual printer so that it used the modern Microsoft print-to-PDF driver instead of the custom one, the reports would export without error! After testing, we confirmed the new PDF reports were printing correctly and being processed as expected into the EMR. The solution worked perfectly, and eliminated the need for frequent reinstalls. We documented the fix for the clinic team and technicians to use in the future, as we’ll hopefully need it for the Refresh project replacements soon!

We're gearing up to head to County Jail in the next week or two as we prepare to resume the refresh project. Cook County Health administers approximately 400 PCs onsite servicing a population of about 5000.