---
layout: post
title:  "A+ Certification Passed!"
date:   2023-01-23 14:13:46 -0600
categories: tech
---
Working towards the A+ was in some ways harder than I expected. I have a history of messing with software and hardware over the years but rarely in such a structured or formal way. 

Growing up my parents were fairly quick to recognize when new technologies were on their way to changing the world. I was lucky to grow up with a windows desktop in the house from a very young age, before we even had dial-up at the house. Over the years we got dial-up, then DSL, and later broadband cable. We went from Wifi B to G to N, and used Powerline for wired networking for a little while as well. I had a summer internship back in 2006 where I worked doing things like installing and configuring software on client computers, labeling and organizing tape backups, and cloning laptops for use at upcoming company events, among other things. I built a few desktop computers for myself/friends/family back in 2011/12 and have upgraded components here and there since then. Each of these little experiences (and many more) gave me a solid background for getting started with the material.

I decided to go for the A+ after reading some guides and advice on the internet, particularly on Reddit at /r/ITCareerQuestions. The rough plan is to get the A+ and Network+ and then try and learn the basics of some fundamental tools (command line tools and scripting primarily) while diving into some specific IT management technologies. As I begin working and getting more hands on experience I will see what seems like the best bang-for-buck in terms of spend and time and then potentially start working towards other certificates like a CCNA or Azure or AWS certs, or possibly even working towards a Bachelors degree.

I bought Jason Dion’s A+ courses on Udemy and found them to be quite good. His courses seem to teach slightly less to the directives of the test and slightly more to the actual use and impact of the information itself, which is definitely a good thing but does mean that the course can go off topic or dive into information not actually relevant to the certification. His practice tests dial it back in and I felt were fairly accurate to the contents of the exam itself. I also watched Professor Messer’s course on YouTube and his course is much more direct and focused on the exam objectives, but lacked some of the detail and impact that Dion’s did. I watched Dion’s 1101 series first, then Messer’s 1101, and then took the test, and I felt that order worked well teaching the information, concepts, and use of different technologies, and then focused that information more towards the goal of actually passing the test itself. I did the same process with the 1102 series and with the experience, momentum, and overlap between the two tests was able to work through the material quite a bit faster.

Overall I would say what I found most difficult was memorizing all of the acronyms and remembering what they actually represent. I used Anki to study acronyms and ports for the test and without some sort of flashcard use it would’ve been much harder to pass. Shoutout to the Anki team for such a simple and useful tool.

I bought Dion’s two courses on 12/8/22 and passed my 1101 exam on 1/4/23 and 1102 exam on 1/20. It felt great to pass as much because I had set my first goal and achieved it, and because the exams themselves are not cheap! My last day at Lou’s is scheduled for 2/5 which is coming up soon, I have some things I want to focus on to try and set the team up for success and take it all in over the next couple weeks. As I do that I’ll also start working towards the Network+ certification and then really start going for a job!