---
layout: post
title:  "Leaving"
date:   2023-02-03 11:51:15 -0600
categories: life
---
It would be hard for me to put into words how much I changed during my time at Lou Malnati’s over the past 11+ years. I wrote a first draft of this post and got up to about 2500 words trying to relay the story of what lead me there and where I am now, and felt like I hadn’t made it through half of what it needed to. For brevity you’ll just have to take my word for it.

I started working at Lou Malnati’s at a time when I was questioning my ability to be happy and feel successful. Before Lou’s I had constructive experiences that served me well and trying experiences that didn’t. Fortunate circumstances that served me well and unlucky circumstances that didn’t. Gifts that served me, and baggage that weighed me down. I came into the job holding onto my baggage, regretting my bad experiences, bemoaning my fortune, and overall lacking confidence.

An opportunity came when I started working and I gave it a shot. As I gathered small wins, personal and professional, I took more chances and tried new things. Some weren’t for me, but some were. I began slowly shedding less desirable bits and pieces of who I was before, and started relearning who I am and how to be the more authentic self I am today. I “came of age” in a big way while working at the restaurants. That personal and professional growth and maturation *may* have happened elsewhere, but it *did* happen there. For that growth and for those memories I’ll always appreciate my Lou’s era.

I am moving on now from a position as the second-in-command of the flagship location. I leave feeling sure in my ability to do the work, to lead, to grow, and to enjoy the journey. As I turn this new page I am confident in my myself, I know what I value, and I feel able to go for what I want. Shoutout to all my friends and colleges for supporting me along the way, and mentors both professional and personal for their patience and time.

So that’s what I’m doing! See ya’s and good luck