---
layout: post
title:  "StudyGPT"
date:   2023-02-27 13:13:31 -0600
categories: tech
---
I’ve been grinding through studying the Network+ materials and making some decent progress especially this past week or so. I finished watching Jason Dion’s Net+ course on Udemy a few days ago and took the included practice test the same day. I got the equivalent of I think a 722/900 on which would be a passing score by a hair, closer than I would like on the real thing but strong enough that I’ve gone ahead and scheduled the real test for next week.

One thing that has proved to be a much bigger help for learning this set of objectives is the much hyped ChatGPT. While at the end of the day just passing the certification and getting the piece of paper would be nice I do really want to understand the material because it's clearly fundamental to understanding networking at a practical level. I would say the majority of Dion’s explanations go into enough depth to understand the technologies and protocols but others in this course feel rushed or convoluted. I found his explanation of Spanning Tree Protocol in particular to be rather confusing, so after scrolling back and watching through the video a second and third time I went off to ChatGPT to see if I could get a more detailed and clear explanation.

Sure enough by asking a series of Why’s and How’s I was able to get a better understanding of STP. There were a couple things I figured out that were throwing me off. First, I didn’t quite grasp how a broadcast storm would form, and figured out that if a switch receives traffic to a MAC address it isn't familiar with the switch will then broadcast that traffic to all ports. This could be traffic like ARP or DHCP broadcasts. Second, I was mixing layer 2 and layer 3 concepts and didn’t get why switches wouldn’t just drop the traffic after a while. Once I internalized that switched frames have no TTL headers like IP packets have, then it started to make more sense how the loops could grow to an unmanageable limit. Lastly, I didn’t get how exactly the switches would communicate towards convergence. ChatGPT gave a good explanation of BPDUs, the information they contain, and the step by step convergence process.

This was the first of I’m sure many concepts ChatGPT will help me better understand. Now that I have my next test date locked in I’ve started working through the Professor Messer Net+ course and making my own Anki flashcards for the many acronyms and to try and put the concepts and definitions behind the acronyms into my own words.