---
layout: post
title:  "Homelab 0.1"
date:   2023-02-14 12:21:12 -0600
categories: tech
---
Funemployment so far has been pretty good! I took a vacation this past weekend skiing in Keystone, Colorado with some cousins which was a nice opportunity to unwind after my last weeks at working at Lou’s.

I wanted to try and set up a homelab with the intention of using it as a starting point for getting hands on experience and practice with some of the different technologies I hope to work with soon. I bought a ThinkCentre M70q off ebay with an Intel 10500T, 256 gigs of storage, and 16 gigs of ram. The ram and storage will likely limit my ability to do anything too crazy with tons of VMs for now but it’s something and if I run it 24/7 at some point it won’t dent our home power usage too bad. It didn’t come with a Wifi card but I plan to try and hide it with the home router in the cubby under the stairs in our basement, so I’ll just wire it up direct to the router. It came with a keyboard and mouse and I’ll see if I can’t get a cheap monitor from OfferUp or Facebook Marketplace for some configuration, but the hope long term is I can just SSH or RDP in from my primary desktop and laptops as necessary.

Today seemed like as good a day as any to distract myself from my Network+ studies, so I spent some time getting it working on that today. Microsoft offers free Windows Server 2022 evaluation ISOs good for 180 days at a time and I downloaded one to work with. I created a partition on a flash drive for the ISO using PowerShell for the heck of it, never used PowerShell in any capacity before and first impressions it seems pretty powerful but rather verbose. I extracted the ISO onto the drive using PowerShell and tried to configure it as bootable although ultimately wasn’t able to figure that out in the limited time I wanted to spend getting it set up. 

Just to get going I just hooked it up to our TV and used the wireless keyboard and mouse from our media PC, booted up to the preinstalled Windows 11 and then began the installation process which was about as straightforward as any standard Windows install. Once finished I poked around a bit with the Windows Server Manager for a bit before calling it for the day. Our Wifi access point is an old TP Link 802.11n Router and the next little project will probably be to buy a newer AX router and find a way to wire it up to the kitchen or somewhere else more central than the corner of the basement where our AP is now. Once I have that going I’ll see if we can get WPA3-Enterprise configured using the homelab as an Active Directory server on the WLAN for the wife and I, and then configure a guest network with WPA2 or 3 and a PSK.